.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014,
.\" 2015, 2016
.\" Martin Lambers
.\" Copyright (C) 2011
.\" Scott Shumate
.\" Copyright (C) 2016
.\" Daniel Dickinson
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.TH MSMTPQ-NG 1 2016-06
.SH NAME
msmtpq-ng \- An queuing mail transport agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP "Sendmail mode (default):"
.B msmtpq-ng
[option...] [\-\-] recipient...
.br
.B msmtpq-ng
[option...] \-t [\-\-] [recipient...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the default sendmail mode, msmtpq queues mail it receives on stdin
and attempts to use msmtp to send via an SMTP server for delivery and
queues it for retrying if there is an error or no connection with
which to send mail.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The standard sendmail exit status codes are used, as defined in sysexits.h.
.SH OPTIONS
Options override configuration file settings.
.br
They are compatible with sendmail where appropriate.
.IP "\fBGeneral options\fP"
As for msmtp, with the following additions:
.IP \-bp
List queue.
.IP \-bs
Use SMTP (RFC821) subset (MUST but not all SHOULD) to communicate over stdin and stdout, which
should be sufficient to allow msmtpq-ng to be used as an SMTP server when combined
with a tool like xinetd that handles the network communications.
.IP \-i
Ignore dots alone in incoming messages.
.IP \-q
Flush queue.
.IP \-qI <ID>
Send message from queue with ID <ID>.
.IP "\--help"
Print help.
.SH FILES
.IP "/etc/msmtpq-ng.rc"
System configuration file.
.IP "~/.msmtpq-ng.rc"
User configuration file (overrides system configuration file if present).
.br
.SH AUTHORS
msmtpq-ng was initially written by Chris Gianniotis (as msmtpq, based on the
msmtpqueue concept by Martin Lambers), and largely rewritten by Daniel
Dickinson.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msmtpq-ng-queue (1),
.BR msmtp (1),
.BR sendmail (8)
