.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014,
.\" 2015, 2016
.\" Martin Lambers
.\" Copyright (C) 2011
.\" Scott Shumate
.\" Copyright (C) 2016
.\" Daniel Dickinson
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.TH MSMTP-NG-QUEUE 1 2016-06
.SH NAME
msmtpq-ng-queue \- Queue management for msmtpq-ng
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP "msmtpq-ng-queue [option...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
msmtpq-ng-queue contains a sendmail/postfix compatible subset of
the mailq command (sendmail -bp), postqueue, and postsuper, in
order to support tools which will work with both msmtpq-ng and
postfix for the purposes of easy mail queue management.
.br
.br
.SH EXIT STATUS
The standard sendmail exit status codes are used, as defined in sysexits.h.
.SH OPTIONS
They are compatible with sendmail and postfix where appropriate.
.IP "\fBGeneral options\fP"
.IP "No options"
List all messages in queue in mailq-compatible format.  Also can
be achieved via
.B msmtpq-ng -bp
.IP "\--help"
Print help.
.IP "\-f"
Attempt to deliver all messages in queue (flush queue)
.IP "\-h <id>"
Put message <id> on hold or ALL for all.
.IP "\-H <id>"
Take message <id> off hold or ALL for all.
.IP "\-i <id>"
Flush message <id> from queue, if it can be delivered.
.IP "\-d <id>"
Delete message <id> from queue, or ALL for all.
.SH FILES
.IP "/etc/msmtpq-ng.rc"
System configuration file.
.IP "~/.msmtpq-ng.rc"
User configuration file.
.SH AUTHORS
msmtp-ng-queue was written by Daniel Dickinson, based msmtpq by
Chris Gianiotti which in turn was inspired by the msmtpqueue scripts
by Martin Lambers <marlam@marlam.de>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msmtpq-ng (1),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR mailq (1),
.BR postqueue(1),
.BR postsuper(1)
